Quantum mechanics has the curious distinction of being simultaneously the most suc
cessful and the most mysterious of our scientific theories. It was developed in fits and
 starts over a remarkable period from 1900 to the 1920s, maturing into its current form in
 the late 1920s. In the decades following the 1920s, physicists had great success applying
 quantum mechanics to understand the fundamental particles and forces of nature, cul
minating in the development of the standard model of particle physics. Over the same
 period, physicists had equally great success in applying quantummechanicstounderstand
 an astonishing range of phenomena in our world, from polymers to semiconductors, from
 superfluids to superconductors. But, while these developments profoundly advanced our
 understanding of the natural world, they did only a little to improve our understanding
 of quantum mechanics.
 This began to change in the 1970s and 1980s, when a few pioneers were inspired to
 ask whether some of the fundamental questions of computer science and information
 theory could be applied to the study of quantum systems. Instead of looking at quantum
 systems purely as phenomena to be explained as they are found in nature, they looked at
 them as systems that can be designed. This seems a small change in perspective, but the
 implications are profound. No longer is the quantum world taken merely as presented,
 but instead it can be created. The result was a new perspective that inspired both a
 resurgence of interest in the fundamentals of quantum mechanics, and also many new
 questions combining physics, computer science, and information theory. These include
 questions such as: what are the fundamental physical limitations on the space and time
 required to construct a quantum state? How much time and space are required for a given
 dynamical operation? What makes quantum systems difficult to understand and simulate
 by conventional classical means?
 Writing this book in the late 1990s, we were fortunate to be writing at a time when
 these and other fundamental questions had just crystallized out. Ten years later it is
 clear such questions offer a sustained force encouraging a broad research program at the
 foundations of physics and computer science. Quantum information science is here to
 stay. Although the theoretical foundations of the field remain similar to what we discussed
 10yearsago,detailedknowledgeinmanyareashasgreatlyprogressed.Originally,thisbook
 served as a comprehensive overview of the field, bringing readers near to the forefront
 of research. Today, the book provides a basic foundation for understanding the field,
 appropriate either for someone who desires a broad perspective on quantum information
 science, or an entrywayforfurtherinvestigation of thelatest research literature. Of course,
 manyfundamentalchallenges remain, and meeting those challenges promises to stimulate
 exciting and unexpected links among many disparate parts of physics, computer science,
 and information theory. We look forward to the decades ahead!
